create database libreria;

use libreria;

create table autores(
autor_id VARCHAR(11),
apellido VARCHAR(40),
nombre VARCHAR(20),
telefono VARCHAR(12),
direccion VARCHAR(40),
ciudad VARCHAR(20),
provincia CHAR(2),
c_postal CHAR(5),
estado TINYINT(1)
);

create table ventas(
local_id CHAR(4),
factura_nro VARCHAR(20),
fecha DATETIME,
cantidad SMALLINT,
forma_pago VARCHAR(12),
libro_id VARCHAR(6)
);

create table locales(
local_id CHAR(4),
nombre VARCHAR(40),
direccion VARCHAR(40),
ciudad VARCHAR(20),
provincia CHAR(2),
c_postal CHAR(5)
);

create table editoriales(
editorial_id CHAR(4),
nombre VARCHAR(40),
ciudad VARCHAR(20),
provincia CHAR(2),
pais VARCHAR(30)
);

create table libros(
libro_id VARCHAR(6),
titulo VARCHAR(80),
categoria CHAR(12),
editorial_id CHAR(4),
precio DOUBLE,
comentarios VARCHAR(200),
fecha_publicacion DATETIME
);

create table libroautor(
autor_id VARCHAR(11),
libro_id VARCHAR(6)
);

create table empleados(
empleado_id CHAR(9),
nombre VARCHAR(20),
apellido VARCHAR(30),
puesto_id SMALLINT,
editorial_id CHAR(4),
fecha_ingreso DATETIME
);

create table puestos(
puesto_id SMALLINT,
descripcion VARCHAR(50)
);

alter table puestos
add primary key(puesto_id);

alter table empleados
add primary key(empleado_id, puesto_id, editorial_id);

alter table libroautor
add primary key(autor_id, libro_id);

alter table libros
add primary key(libro_id, editorial_id);

alter table editoriales
add primary key(editorial_id);

alter table locales
add primary key(local_id);

alter table ventas
add primary key(local_id, libro_id);

alter table autores
add primary key(autor_id);